hi everyone I'm rockin Robin from
cooking Mexican recipes calm now today
I'm going to show you how to make some
oven fried chicken we're going to season
this with some bread crumbs with some
Italian seasonings in that and I'll tell
you it's just a little bit healthier
than your typical pan-fried chicken so
and the cleanup is so much easier you
don't have all that grease splatter all
over your stove and you don't have to
worry about getting rid of all that
extra oil that you've used to cook the
chicken in so don't go away I'll be
right back to tell you all about it so
let me go over the ingredients with you
so we can get started with our oven
fried chicken so for our chicken I'm
going to be using chicken thighs now I
have four of them here and obviously the
bone is in and I had the skin on and I
left the skin on this one piece here so
that I could show you my little tip for
easily removing the skin off the chicken
so basically what you want to do is I
just grab a paper towel and I loosen the
skin up and then I use the paper towel
to pull back on the skin and I tell you
it's a vice grip that just really makes
it easy it just pulls it right off you
have a nice grip on it so that works
beautifully to do it that way okay so
our other ingredients are our coating
here I've got an egg which I'm going to
beat up in a minute
and my seasoned breadcrumbs now these
are Italian seasoned breadcrumbs which
means they have some spices in them
already and I really like this I bought
this at Whole Foods
it's the 365 brand so if you want to try
that you can if you don't have seasoned
breadcrumbs or you have a hard time
finding it I'm going to leave a little
recipe for you in the description below
this video so you can do your own if you
like and we'll also need a little bit of
flour that's about a quarter of a cup
and the ratio to the breadcrumbs that's
about a cup and then the other item that
you'll need is some real butter this is
organic butter I had one of my fans or
my my viewers to my channel asked me to
state when I use organic ingredients so
there you go and we'll probably add just
a little more salt and a little bit of
pepper and that's all we'll need
want to mention that you want to be
preheating your oven right now - you
know 425 degrees all right so what I'm
going to do on this plate here is I'm
just going to combine my seasoned bread
crumbs with the flour so we'll sprinkle
that on top and then blend it up really
well now you'll take your egg and just
beat that before so now all we do is you
take a thigh I'm going to dip it right
into the egg mixture just to give it a
little coating so that the bread mixture
will stick to it really well late in
your crumbs and I like to take a spoon
and just sort of sprinkle the crumbs
over the chicken it just makes a little
bit easier and just toss it around until
it's all covered shake off any excess
and then just lay it on your baking
sheet now I'm using a pampered chef it's
like a clay baking sheet and I like to
use that it's not Teflon and it works
beautifully so I'm going to go ahead and
continue coating the rest of my chicken
and we'll go from there so with the
amount of breadcrumbs and even the egg
that I had left over you can easily make
six even eight pieces of chicken so I
just wanted to show you that all I
wanted for today for myself is four so
that's why I have some leftover
breadcrumbs so yeah and you can use
certainly use chicken breasts legs
thighs whatever you want to do as well
so now all we have left to do is if you
want to add just a little bit more salt
just to give it a little sprinkle on top
of each piece just a little bit and
maybe a little pepper that's that and
our last thing is butter so I had my
butter in the refrigerator so it's nice
and cold I'm peeling off a nice thin
piece of butter can you see that can you
see how thin that is I'll show you that
in just a second here but you have to
have your butter nice and cold in order
to be able to do that okay so what I do
is I take my knife and I go across the
top and I make a very thin sliver of
butter and hopefully you can see that
it's just like paper paper-thin
and then I place that on top of the
chicken so I'm not adding too much
butter but just a nice thin very thin
paper layer I'm kind of good at this and
everybody makes fun of me but because I
do that to the butter sometimes I go
across the top and then I've got this
big you know valley in the butter and
they're like what you do to the butter
it's just me shaving off thin pieces
when I want it really nice and thin but
like I said it's got to be cold to do
that so I just put a few pieces on top
and show you that here in just a second
just so you know you got some moisture
because I took the skin off of the
chicken and there's no fat up there so
you've got to put a little bit of fat to
get those breadcrumbs moistened and this
butter will drip down and get on the
bottom as well and then the bottom will
also get nice and brown so here's the
chicken here you can see where I placed
the very thin slices of butter on top
and that's pretty much it
so we're going to place this in the oven
a number I told you it's a set at 425 so
we'll go do that now
and we're going to check it in about 15
minutes it'll probably take you know
half an hour total we'll put it in for
15 we'll turn it over and then we'll do
it another 15 okay so you can see here
I'm going to place this in the oven and
I have it on the lower third of the rack
not the very bottom rack but just one up
above that so like I said we'll check
that in 15 minutes all right here we go
we're going to check the chicken time to
turn it over
starting to turn a nice golden-brown
okay there we go
and we're going to let that go for
another probably 18 minutes I'm going to
go all right so here's our chicken after
about 35 minutes
it's a beautiful golden brown and I'm
just going to go ahead and cut into it
you can use an instant-read thermometer
that's got a little pink in it still I'm
going to let it go probably one more
minute or so that one looks done let
that go one minute and then we're going
to pull it out okay so here's our
chicken just out of the oven doesn't
that look fantastic nice and golden
brown it's easy it's delicious cooks up
within about a half an hour depending on
how big your pieces are and you know you
can serve this up with any kind of side
dish salad vegetables and you've got a
delicious meal that is healthier than
regular fried chicken so yeah I get you
got to give this a try so do try my oven
fried chicken I know you're going to
really enjoy it it's easy to cook it's
easy to cleanup you don't have all that
extra oil that you have to dispose of so
yeah give it a try I'm really sure
you're going to love this so go ahead
and subscribe to my channel if you like
this video and you want to see more of
them and leave me a comment I'd love to
hear how you cook your oven fried
chicken maybe you have a special
technique or recipe that you like to
share alright thanks for watching and be
sure and head on over to my website at
cooking Mexican recipes com I have a lot
of Mexican recipes over there that you
can cook at home thanks for watching